kubeadm: add guide for kubelet serving certs and metrics-server (#27071)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-certs.md

Kubeadm does not support rotation or replacement of CA certificates out of the box.

For more information about manual rotation or replacement of CA, see [manual rotation of CA certificates](/docs/tasks/tls/manual-rotation-of-ca-certificates/).

## Enabling signed kubelet serving certificates {#kubelet-serving-certs}

By default the kubelet serving certificate deployed by kubeadm is self-signed.
This means a connection from external services like the
[metrics-server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) to a
kubelet cannot be secured with TLS.

To configure the kubelets in a new kubeadm cluster to obtain properly signed serving
certificates you must pass the following minimal configuration to `kubeadm init`:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterConfiguration
---
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
serverTLSBootstrap: true
```

If you have already created the cluster you must adapt it by doing the following:

> - Find and edit the `kubelet-config-x.yy` ConfigMap under `kube-system` to include
> the field `serverTLSBootstrap: true` under the `config` key

Reviewer: We could also write:
```suggestion
 - Find and edit the `kubelet-config-x.yy` ConfigMap in the `kube-system` namespace.
   In that ConfigMap, the `config` key has a
   [kubelet configuration](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-KubeletConfiguration) document as
   its value. Edit the kubelet configuration document to set `serverTLSBootstrap: true`.
```

- maybe in a follow-up PR?

Reviewer: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reconfigure-kubelet/ recommends changing the ConfigMap that kubelets use (a different name); is that advice related to what's recommended here?

Author: > maybe in a follow-up PR?

updated in this PR.

> https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reconfigure-kubelet/ recommends changing the ConfigMap that kubelets use (a different name); is that advice related to what's recommended here?

kubeadm uses a single ConfigMap, so need to introduce a new ConfigMap with a different name.

Kubeadm does not support rotation or replacement of CA certificates out of the box.

For more information about manual rotation or replacement of CA, see [manual rotation of CA certificates](/docs/tasks/tls/manual-rotation-of-ca-certificates/).

## Enabling signed kubelet serving certificates {#kubelet-serving-certs}

By default the kubelet serving certificate deployed by kubeadm is self-signed.
This means a connection from external services like the
[metrics-server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server) to a

> kubelet cannot be not be secured.

Reviewer: Could we mention “TLS” here?

Author: sure, there is also a typo there it seems.

To configure the kubelets in a new kubeadm cluster to obtain properly signed serving
certificates you must pass the following minimal configuration to `kubeadm init`:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta2
kind: ClusterConfiguration
---
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
serverTLSBootstrap: true
```

If you have already created the cluster you must adapt it by doing the following:

> - Find and edit the `kubelet-config-x.yy` ConfigMap under `kube-systedm` to include

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Find and edit the `kubelet-config-x.yy` ConfigMap under `kube-system` to include
```
typo?

the field `serverTLSBootstrap: true` under the `config` key
- On each node, add the `serverTLSBootstrap: true` field in `/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml`
and restart the kubelet with `systemctl restart kubelet`

The field `serverTLSBootstrap: true` will enable the bootstrap of kubelet serving
certificates by requesting them from the `certificates.k8s.io` API. One known limitation
is that the CSRs (Certificate Signing Requests) for these certificates cannot be automatically

> approved by the default signer in kube-controller-manager. This will require action from

Reviewer: Which default signer? If possible, link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/#kubernetes-signers and specifiy which built in signer we mean, ie `kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving`.

Author: i can mention `kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving`

the user or a third party controller.

These CSRs can be viewed using:

```shell
kubectl get csr
NAME        AGE     SIGNERNAME                        REQUESTOR                      CONDITION
csr-9wvgt   112s    kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving     system:node:worker-1           Pending
csr-lz97v   1m58s   kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving     system:node:control-plane-1    Pending
```

To approve them you can do the following:
```shell
kubectl certificate approve <CSR-name>
```

By default, these serving certificate will expire after one year. Kubeadm sets the
`KubeletConfiguration` field `rotateCertificates` to `true`, which means that close
to expiration a new set of CSRs for the serving certificates will be created and must
be approved to complete the rotation. To understand more see
[Certificate Rotation](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-tls-bootstrapping/#certificate-rotation).

If you are looking for a solution for automatic approval of these CSRs it is recommended
that you contact your cloud provider and ask if they have a CSR signer that verifies
the node identity with an out of band mechanism.

Third party custom controllers such as

> [kubelet-rubber-stamp](https://github.com/kontena/kubelet-rubber-stamp) can also be used.

Reviewer: Even though it's one item, I'd make this be a list of links and include the third party content warning:
`{{% thirdparty-content %}}`

before that list.

Author: do you mean something in the lines of?

```
{{% thirdparty-content %}}
Third party custom controllers can also be used:
- [kubelet-rubber-stamp](https://github.com/kontena/kubelet-rubber-stamp)
{{% /thirdparty-content %}}

Such a controller is not a secure mechanism unless it not only verifies the CommonName
...
```

```

To approve them you can do the following:
```shell
kubectl certificate approve <CSR-name>
```

By default, these serving certificate will expire after one year. Kubeadm sets the
`KubeletConfiguration` field `rotateCertificates` to `true`, which means that close
to expiration a new set of CSRs for the serving certificates will be created and must
be approved to complete the rotation. To understand more see
[Certificate Rotation](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-tls-bootstrapping/#certificate-rotation).

If you are looking for a solution for automatic approval of these CSRs it is recommended
that you contact your cloud provider and ask if they have a CSR signer that verifies
the node identity with an out of band mechanism.

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

Third party custom controllers can be used:
- [kubelet-rubber-stamp](https://github.com/kontena/kubelet-rubber-stamp)

Such a controller is not a secure mechanism unless it not only verifies the CommonName
in the CSR but also verifies the requested IPs and domain names. This would prevent
a malicious actor that has access to a kubelet client certificate to create

> CSRs requesting serving certificates for any IP or domain name.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we should express options on external project; TBH I would avoid the link entirely but I don't want to block on this

Author: @sftim and randomvariable seem to be fine with mentioning this third-party option.

for cloud provider scenarios we already tell users to consult their provider.
users that don't trust this would have to either use rubber-stamp or write their own controller / DS / scripts.
